Completed initial TW review for topic "Compile a pipeline" (#3393)
kubeflow/website: content/en/docs/components/pipelines/v2/compile-a-pipeline.md

+++
title = "Compile a pipeline"
description = "Compile a pipeline definition to YAML"
weight = 5
+++

You can compile your pipeline or component to intermediate representation (IR) YAML.  The IR YAML definition preserves a static representation of the pipeline or component. You can submit the YAML definition to the KFP backend for execution, or deserialize it using the KFP SDK for integration into another pipeline.

> ([View an example on Github][compiled-output-example]).

Reviewer: nit: capital H `GitHub`

Applies throughout

Author: Good catch

**Note:** Pipelines as well as components are authored in Python. A pipeline is a template representing a multistep workflow, whereas a component is a template representing a single step workflow.

## Compile a pipeline

> Pipelines as well as components are workflow templates authored in Python. A pipeline represents a multistep workflow, whereas a component represents a single step workflow. You can compile a pipeline or a template into IR YAML using the `Compiler.compile` method. To do this, follow these steps:

Reviewer: This is duplicative of the `Note:` above

Author: Fixed

1.  Define a simple pipeline:

    ```python
    from kfp import compiler
    from kfp import dsl

    @dsl.component
    def addition_component(num1: int, num2: int) -> int:
      return num1 + num2

    @dsl.pipeline(name='addition-pipeline')
    def my_pipeline(a: int, b: int, c: int = 10):
      add_task_1 = addition_component(num1=a, num2=b)
      add_task_2 = addition_component(num1=add_task_1.output, num2=c)
    ```

1.  Compile the pipeline to the file `my_pipeline.yaml`:

    ```python
    cmplr = compiler.Compiler()
    cmplr.compile(my_pipeline, package_path='my_pipeline.yaml')
    ```

> 1.  _Optional:_ Directly  compile the component `addition_component` to the file `addition_component.yaml`:

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is "optional" toward the goal of compiling a pipeline, but a different goal altogether: compiling a component. Do you think we can find a middle ground between this structure and that provided in the original draft?

Author: Just read through the code. Removed the "optional" flag.

    ```python
    cmplr.compile(addition_component, package_path='addition_component.yaml')
    ```

<!-- TODO: Include pipeline or component name in the table #} -->

The `Compiler.compile` method accepts the following parameters:

> | Name | Type | Description |

Reviewer: In general, this table should be consistent with the parameter list here: https://kubeflow-pipelines.readthedocs.io/en/2.0.0b6/source/compiler.html#kfp.compiler.Compiler.compile-parameters

Let's either find the best description and make them consistent between the two locations or simply refer to the reference docs and not include this table.

I think I prefer the former option, but open to either.

Author: I would cross-reference to the table.

Author: Mostly accepted, but I personally feel that this table has some additional information that's useful for the user. I've tried to make the wording consistent between the two locations otherwise.

> |------|------|-------------|

Reviewer: For completeness, should probably also include that the `pipeline_func` is required

Author: Added.

> | `package_path` | `string` | _Required_<br/>URI of the compiled IR YAML output file.

Reviewer: nit: filepath, not URI

Author: Fixed

> | `pipeline_name` | `string` | _Optional_<br/>If specified, sets the name of the pipeline template in the `pipelineInfo.name` field in the compiled IR YAML output. Overrides the name of the pipeline or component specified by the `name` parameter in the `@dsl.pipeline` decorator.<br/>For more information about the `pipelineInfo.name` field, see [`pipelineInfo` parameter](#kfp_iryaml_pipelineinfo). |

Reviewer: Is it possible to use basic markdown for line breaks (`<br/>`), instead of html?

> | `pipeline_name` | `string` | _Optional_<br/>If specified, sets the name of the pipeline template in the `pipelineInfo.name` field in the compiled IR YAML output. Overrides the name of the pipeline or component specified by the `name` parameter in the `@dsl.pipeline` decorator.<br/>For more information about the `pipelineInfo.name` field, see [`pipelineInfo` parameter](#kfp_iryaml_pipelineinfo). |

Reviewer: consider:

"For more information about the `pipelineInfo.name` field, see the [IR YAML `pipelineInfo` description](#kfp_iryaml_pipelineinfo).

I don't think it's quite accurate to refer to `pipelineInfo` as a parameter in the context of IR YAML.

Author: This is addressed.

| `pipeline_parameters` | `Dict[str, Any]` | _Optional_<br/>A mapping of parameter names to argument values. This lets you provide default values for pipeline or component parameters. You can override these default values during pipeline submission.
| `type_check` | `bool` | _Optional_<br/>Indicates whether static type checking is enabled during compilation.<br/>For more information about type checking, see [Component I/O: Component interfaces and type checking][type-checking].

## IR YAML

> The IR YAML is an intermediate representation of a compiled pipeline or component. It is an instance of the [`PipelineSpec`][pipeline-spec] protocol buffer message type, which is a platform-agnostic pipeline representation protocol. It is considered an intermediate representation because the KFP backend compiles `PipelineSpec` to [Argo Workflow][argo-workflow] YAML as the final execution definition for execution on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: nit/not your work (this was my language):

`final execution definition for execution on Kubernetes` -> `final pipeline definition for execution`

The compiled IR YAML file contains the following sections:

| Section | Description | Example |
|-------|-------------|---------|
| [`components`][components-schema] | This section is a map of the names of all components used in the pipeline to [`ComponentSpec`][component-spec]. `ComponentSpec` defines the interface, including inputs and outputs, of a component.<br/>For primitive components, `ComponentSpec` contains a reference to the executor containing the component implementation.<br/>For pipelines used as components, `ComponentSpec` contains a [DagSpec][dag-spec] instance, which includes references to the underlying primitive components. | [View on Github][components-example]
| [`deployment_spec`][deployment-spec-schema] | This section contains a map of executor name to [`ExecutorSpec`][executor-spec]. `ExecutorSpec` contains the implementation for a primitive component. | [View on Github][deployment-spec-example]

> | [`root`][root-schema] | This section defines the steps of the outermost pipeline definition, also called the pipeline root definition. The root definition is an instance of [`ComponentSpec`][component-spec], which is also the pipeline executed on Kubernetes when you submit the IR YAML definition to Kubernetes. | [View on Github][root-example]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`root`][root-schema] | This section defines the steps of the outermost pipeline definition, also called the pipeline root definition. The root definition is the workflow executed when you submit the IR YAML. It is an instance of [`ComponentSpec`][component-spec].
```

There's probably a better way to phrase this than what I've suggested, but the main suggestion is to remove references to Kubernetes or submitting IR YAML to Kubernetes.

The IR YAML gets submitted to the KFP BE (then the KFP BE submits Argo Workflow to Kubernetes) and IR YAML can be run on platforms that do not use Kubernetes.

Reviewer: Following up on this comment.

Author: Done.

| [`pipeline_info`][pipeline-info-schema] <a id="kfp_iryaml_pipelineinfo"></a> | This section contains pipeline metadata, including the `pipelineInfo.name` field. This field contains the name of your pipeline template. When you upload your pipeline, a pipeline context name is created based on this template name. The pipeline context lets the backend and the dashboard associate artifacts and executions from pipeline runs using the pipeline template. You can use a pipeline context to determine the best model by comparing metrics and artifacts from multiple pipeline runs based on the same training pipeline. | [View on Github][pipeline-info-example]  

> | [`sdk_version`][sdk-version-schema] | This section records the version of the KFP SDK used to compiled the pipeline. | [View on Github][sdk-version-example]  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [`sdk_version`][sdk-version-schema] | This section records the version of the KFP SDK used to compile the pipeline. | [View on Github][sdk-version-example]  
```

> | [`sdk_version`][sdk-version-schema] | This section records the version of the KFP SDK used to compiled the pipeline. | [View on Github][sdk-version-example]  

Reviewer: nit: `compiled the pipeline` -> `compile the pipeline`

| [`schema_version`][schema-version-schema] | This section records the version of the `PipelineSpec` schema used for the IR YAML. | [View on Github][schema-version-example]

> | [`default_pipeline_root`][default-pipeline-root-schema] | This section records the remote storage root path, such as a Google Cloud Storage URI, where the pipeline output is written. | [View on Github][default-pipeline-root-example]  

Reviewer: nit/not your work:

```suggestion
| [`default_pipeline_root`][default-pipeline-root-schema] | This section records the remote storage root path, such as a MinIO URI or Google Cloud Storage URI, where the pipeline output is written. | [View on Github][default-pipeline-root-example]  
```

I originally only included GCS URI in this text. I think we should include Minio since Minio is the storage service that comes out-of-the-box with KFP.

Reviewer: Following up on this.

+++

You can compile your pipeline or component to intermediate representation (IR) YAML.  The IR YAML definition preserves a static representation of the pipeline or component. You can submit the YAML definition to the KFP backend for execution, or deserialize it using the KFP SDK for integration into another pipeline.
([View an example on GitHub][compiled-output-example]).

**Note:** Pipelines as well as components are authored in Python. A pipeline is a template representing a multistep workflow, whereas a component is a template representing a single step workflow.

## Compile a pipeline

> You can compile a pipeline or a template into IR YAML using the `Compiler.compile` method. To do this, follow these steps:

Reviewer: Not your code: noticed in the example below that the code is under-indented (two spaces v four)

    cmplr.compile(my_pipeline, package_path='my_pipeline.yaml')
    ```

1.  Compile the component `addition_component` to the file `addition_component.yaml`:

    ```python
    cmplr.compile(addition_component, package_path='addition_component.yaml')
    ```

<!-- TODO: Replace <br> with MD line breaks -->

The `Compiler.compile` method accepts the following parameters:

| Name | Type | Description |
|------|------|-------------|

> | `pipeline_func` | `function` | _Required_<br/>Pipeline function constructed with the @dsl.pipeline or component constructed with the @dsl.component decorator.

Reviewer: nit: @dsl.pipeline and @dsl.component should be in code style
